.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii OpenSpeedShop_online.3
.\"
.TH OpenSpeedShop_online 3 "June, 2009" "Open|SpeedShop Reference" "Open|SpeedShop"

.SH NAME
OpenSpeedShop \- DEPRECATED IN CBTF/OFFLINE VERSION - Application Performance Tool Online Mode of Operation

.SH SYNOPSIS

.BR Overview

The Open|SpeedShop performance tool gathers information about the user 
application performance such as inclusive and exclusive CPU time, hardware 
counter events and time, detailed information about I/O events/calls, 
detailed information about MPI events/calls, and floating point exceptions 
that occurred in the user application.  The term experiment is used to 
describe the application and the type of performance data being gathered.   

One of the ways Open|SpeedShop uses to gather the performance data, online,
is the topic of this man page.  The mode of instrumentation in 
Open|SpeedShop refers to the manner in which the user application is 
instrumented to allow the application execution to produce performance 
information, in addition to the applications normal output.  In the online 
mode, the Open|SpeedShop performance data collectors are interjected into the 
user application through dynamic instrumentation, via the Dyninst component
in Open|SpeedShop.  When the online mode of operation is used (-online option 
to openss, currently the default), then the application can either be started 
from the beginning or can be attached to while already running.  

The advantage to the online mode of operation is the flexibility to attach 
to processes that are already running, view the data on demand (while 
application is still running), and then detach from the application.  
The disadvantage of this mode of operation is that the start up cost is 
greater than the offline mode of operation because daemons must be started 
on all the nodes where the user application is going to run and all 
the symbols are processed before application start up, of if attaching, 
at the point of Open|SpeedShops attachment to the application.  This 
takes some time, but the benefit is the ability and flexibility
of being able to gleen performance information from a long running job after
it has been started.  One may attach, gather and view the performance data and
then detach from the running application, without interrupting the applications
execution.

Here are a few examples of how to invoke Open|SpeedShop in online mode:
.nf

openss -f "executable" <experiment_type>

.fi
is the syntax for invocation of the online version of Open|SpeedShop when
starting an application from the beginning.  This will bring up the Graphical
user interface with the experiment ready to run.  A "real" experiment command
might look like this:

.nf
openss -f "/opt/openmpi/bin/mpirun -np 64 /home/jeg/sweep3d.mpi" pcsamp
.fi


Open|SpeedShop can be used to attach to a running application:

.nf
openss -p <pidnumber of mpirun> pcsamp
.fi

is the syntax for invocation of the online version of Open|SpeedShop when
attaching to a MPI application where the user wants to analyze all the ranked
processes in the job.  If the user only wanted to view the performance information
for one or more of the MPI ranked processes they could attach to those process Ids
or the user could specify the rank numbers using the -r <rank number> option.
Please see the Open|SpeedShop Users Guide for more details.



.SH SEE ALSO

The OpenSpeedShop Web site: www.openspeedshop.org

.BR openss (1),
.BR OpenSpeedShop (3)
.BR OpenSpeedShop_offline (3)


