.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii OpenSpeedShop_cbtf.3
.\"
.TH OpenSpeedShop_cbtf 3 "September, 2017" "Open|SpeedShop Reference" "Open|SpeedShop"

.SH NAME
OpenSpeedShop \- Application Performance Tool CBTF Mode of Operation

.SH SYNOPSIS

.BR Overview

Open|SpeedShop gathers information about the user application performance
such as inclusive and exclusive CPU time, hardware counter events and
time, detailed information about I/O events/calls, detailed information
about MPI events/calls, memory leaks and highwater marks, OpenMP specific
wait and idle information, POSIX thread information, and NVIDIA CUDA event 
and data transfer information.  The term, experiment, is used to 
describe the application and the type of performance data being gathered.   

One of the ways Open|SpeedShop uses to gather the performance data, CBTF
(Component Based Tool Framework), is the topic of this man page.  The 
mode of instrumentation in Open|SpeedShop refers to the manner in which 
the user application is instrumented to allow the application execution to 
produce performance information, in addition to the applications normal 
output.  In the CBTF mode, the Open|SpeedShop performance data is transported
back to the Open|SpeedShop client tool via a multicast reduction network based
on the MRNet component developed by the University of Wisconsin.  CBTF adds
code around MRNet to make it easier for tool developers to send and filter
the information that is sent from the user application to the client tool.
When the CBTF mode of operation is used (--cbtf option, currently the default),
then the performance information is tranferred via this multicast network
from the user application to the client tool.  CBTF communication node processes
can and do filter the performance information to reduce or annotate the 
performance information in parallel before the data arrives at the Open|SpeedShop
client (openss).

Here are a few examples of how to invoke Open|SpeedShop in online mode:
.nf

oss<experiment_type> --cbtf "executable"

.fi
is the syntax for invocation of the CBTF version of Open|SpeedShop when
starting an application from the beginning.  A "real" experiment command
might look like this:

.nf
osspcsamp "/opt/openmpi/bin/mpirun -np 64 /home/jeg/sweep3d.mpi"
.fi


.SH SEE ALSO

The OpenSpeedShop Web site: www.openspeedshop.org

.BR openss (1),
.BR OpenSpeedShop (3)
.BR OpenSpeedShop_offline (3)
.BR osspcsamp (1),
.BR ossusertime (1),
.BR osshwc (1),
.BR osshwcsamp (1),
.BR osshwctime (1),
.BR ossio (1),
.BR ossiop (1),
.BR ossiot (1),
.BR ossmem (1),
.BR ossmpi (1),
.BR ossmpip (1),
.BR ossmpit (1),
.BR ossomptp (1)
.BR osspthreads (1)
.BR osscuda (1)




