.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii OpenSpeedShop_offline.3
.\"
.TH OpenSpeedShop_offline 3 "June, 2009" "Open|SpeedShop Reference" "Open|SpeedShop"

.SH NAME
OpenSpeedShop \- Application Performance Tool Offline Mode of Operation

.SH SYNOPSIS

.BR Overview

Open|SpeedShop gathers information about the user application performance
such as inclusive and exclusive CPU time, hardware counter events and
time, detailed information about I/O events/calls, detailed information
about MPI events/calls, memory leaks and highwater marks, OpenMP specific
wait and idle information, POSIX thread information, and NVIDIA CUDA event 
and data transfer information.  The term experiment is used to 
describe the application and the type of performance data being gathered.   

One of the ways Open|SpeedShop uses to gather the performance data, offline,
is the topic of this man page.  The mode of instrumentation in Open|SpeedShop 
refers to the manner in which the user application is instrumented to allow 
the application execution to produce performance information, in addition to 
the applications normal output.  In the offline mode of operation, the 
Open|SpeedShop performance data collectors are linked into the user application 
through the libMonitor component (by the use of LD_PRELOAD) in Open|SpeedShop.  
When the offline mode of operation is used (-offline option to the Open|SpeedShop
 convenience scripts), the application runs from beginning to end in order for 
the performance gathering to complete properly.

One of the advantages of using the offline mode of operation is that there are no
daemons/processes needed on any of the nodes of the cluster that the user application job 
is running.  The Open|SpeedShop collectors that are linked into the user application
write any performance information gathered to a shared file system and that data
is then processed at application termination.  The raw data files written to the
shared file system are placed into a Open|SpeedShop database file along with the
symbol information for the application.   This database file has all the information
to view the performance experiment results later, without needed the application
to be available.

oss<experiment_type> -offline "executable"

is the syntax for invocation of the offline version of Open|SpeedShop.

There are also several convenience scripts which are intended to simplify
the syntax for users of the offline version.  The syntax for these scripts
is:

oss<experiment_type> "executable"

For example:

osspcsamp --offline "/opt/openmpi/bin/mpirun -np 32 ./sweep3d.mpi"

Please view the man pages for any of the convenience scripts that
might be of interest to you.  They are listed below in the SEE ALSO section.


.SH SEE ALSO

The OpenSpeedShop Web site: www.openspeedshop.org

.BR OpenSpeedShop (3)
.BR OpenSpeedShop_cbtf (3)
.BR openss (1),
.BR osspcsamp (1),
.BR ossusertime (1),
.BR osshwc (1),
.BR osshwcsamp (1),
.BR osshwctime (1),
.BR ossio (1),
.BR ossiop (1),
.BR ossiot (1),
.BR ossmem (1),
.BR ossmpi (1),
.BR ossmpip (1),
.BR ossmpit (1),
.BR ossomptp (1)
.BR osspthreads (1)
.BR osscuda (1)

