.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii openss.1
.\"
.TH OPENSS 1 "JANUARY 2017" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
openss \- Open|SpeedShop Application Performance Tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf

.B openss [ [-gui|-cli] ] | -gui | -cli ] 
         [-f executable experiment_type] [-f openss_database] 

.B openss [-batch  [ -f executable experiment_type ] | < command_file]

where:
-f executable refers to these syntax options:
          [-f simple_executable ]
          [-f "executable args"]
          [-f "multi_executable"]   

and

-f openss_database refers to Open|SpeedShop result files
                   having the suffix ".openss"
.fi

.SH TYPICAL USAGE FORM

For the Open|SpeedShop-2.3.1 release the suggested usage is 
to run Open|SpeedShop to gather the performance information 
of your choice and then use the Open|SpeedShop graphical user 
interface (GUI) or the Open|SpeedShop command line interface 
(CLI) to view the performance analysis results.
.nf

Run the application using Open|SpeedShop's convenience scripts, which
use the openss command inside each of the conveniences scripts.

osspcsamp "executable"
ossusertime "executable"
osshwc "executable"
...


and then:

View the performance analysis results by viewing the 
Open|SpeedShop database created during the command above.

Using GUI:

openss -f openss_database

Using CLI:

openss -cli -f openss_database

.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B openss

openss is the command that invokes the Open|SpeedShop application level
performance tool.  Open|SpeedShop gathers performance information about
the application being monitored and reports that information back to the
user in order to locate performance bottlenecks in user applications.

Open|SpeedShop gathers information about the user application performance
such as inclusive and exclusive CPU time, hardware counter events and
time, detailed information about I/O events/calls, detailed information
about MPI events/calls, memory leaks and highwater marks, OpenMP specific
wait and idle information, POSIX thread information, and NVIDIA CUDA event 
and data transfer information.  The term experiment is used to describe the
application and the type of performance data being gathered.

To access the specific information the user specifies the experiment
type name that corresponds to the type of information to be gathered.  The 
following list shows the experiment type name that corresponds to the type
of data to be gathered:

Experiment type    Description of Performance Data

pcsamp             Periodic sampling of the program counter 
                   which gives a low overhead overview of where 
                   the time is being spent in the user application.

usertime           Use to find call path performance bottlenecks.
                   Periodic sampling of the call path at the time of 
                   the sample.  This experiment allows the user to view 
                   inclusive and exclusive time spent in application 
                   routines. It also allows the user to see which 
                   routines called which routines.  Several call path 
                   views are available.

hwc                Hardware counter event counts at the source line, 
                   machine instruction, and function levels of various 
                   hardware events, including: clock cycles, graduated 
                   instructions, primary instruction cache misses, 
                   secondary instruction cache misses, primary data 
                   cache misses, secondary data cache misses, 
                   translation lookaside buffer (TLB) misses, and 
                   graduated floating-point instructions, amongst 
                   others.

hwctime            Similar to hwc experiment, except that call path 
                   sampling is also included/used.

io                 Use to find I/O performance bottlenecks.
                   Records time spent in the following I/O system 
                   calls: read, readv, write, writev, open, close, 
                   dup, pipe, creat.  The number of calls and the 
                   time spent in the I/O routine is reported as wall 
                   clock time.

iop                Similar to io experiment, except that information
                   about each individual I/O call is not preserved in
                   the database file.  This is experiment intends to
                   be lightweight, while providing an overview of the
                   I/O usage in the application being profiled.


iot                Similar to io experiment, except that additional 
                   information about the I/O call is gathered.  
                   Information such as bytes read or written, the name
                   of the file being read from or written to, and other
                   I/O call specific information are available.

mem                The mem experiment..

mpi                The MPI experiment captures the time spent in and 
                   the number of times each MPI function is called in
                   the user's application program.  The user also has
                   the option of displaying this data in the trace 
                   format.  When using the trace format each event 
                   is presented individually showing the start time
                   and end time for the MPI function call.

mpip               The MPI experiment captures the time spent in and 
                   the number of times each MPI function is called in
                   the user's application program.  This experiment is
                   a lightweight MPI function profiling experiment, where
                   individual call information is not perserved in the
                   database file.  The data is aggregated in order 
                   to save space and keep the database size smaller.

mpit               This experiment captures each MPI function call 
                   event and records specific data corresponding to 
                   that particular call.  The user is then able to 
                   display each of the MPI call event and its data 
                   through the Open|SpeedShop GUI or command line 
                   interface (CLI).

omptp              The omptp experiment..

pthreads           The pthreads experiment..

cuda               The cuda experiment..

There are convenience command scripts that correspond to each of the
experiment types above.  These script hide all arguments to openss 
but the executable argument.  
.nf

           osspcsamp "executable"

.fi

The convenience command scripts each have their own man page.  The
command names are listed below in the SEE ALSO section.


.SH OPTIONS
.IP "<no arguments>"
When openss is invoked with no arguments, that causes the 
Graphical User Interface (GUI) to be raised and Open|SpeedShop
then operates in wizard mode.  The Open|SpeedShop wizards guide
the user through the creation and execution of a performance 
monitoring experiment.

.IP -gui
Raise the Open|SpeedShop Graphical User Interface (GUI) when this
option is specified.

.IP -cli
Operate Open|SpeedShop in interactive command line mode (CLI).
openss accepts a number of CLI commands to create experiments,
run experiments, and view the results of performance experiments.

.IP "-f simple_executable"
This option specifies the simple executable to be run. By 
simple executable we mean a one word command with no arguments.
No quotes around the executable name are needed when the command
is a single word command with no arguments.

.IP "-f ""executable args"" "
This option specifies an executable with arguments to be run. In
this case the executable can be a one word command or a multiple 
word (multiple tokens) command, such as a mpi command specification. 
For example:
.nf

        -f "simple_executable -n 40 40 40"

or

        -f "/opt/mpi/mpirun -np 64 ./executable_name" 

.fi
Open|SpeedShop requires quotes around the executable and arguments when 
the executable command is not simple.

.IP "-f ""multi_executable [args]"" "
This option specifies a multi word executable with or without
arguments to be run. In this case the executable is multi word 
command or a multiple word command, such as a mpi command 
specification. For example: 

        -f "/opt/mpi/mpirun -np 64 ./executable_name" 

Open|SpeedShop requires quotes around the executable and arguments when 
the executable command is not simple.

.IP "-f openss_database"
This option specifies that an Open|SpeedShop database will
be loaded into the Open|SpeedShop user interface.  Once loaded,
the performance data will be available for viewing.

.IP "experiment_type"
This option specifies the type of performance information to be
gathered while the Open|SpeedShop performance experiment is applied
to the user application.  The supported experiment types are:

pcsamp, usertime, hwc, hwctime, io, iop, iot, mem, mpi, mpip, mpit, 
omptp, pthreads, cuda

The details for these options are described above in the Description
section of this man page.   See the Open|SpeedShop Users Guide for
more detailed information.

.SH FILES
.IP ~/.qt/openspeedshoprc
.RS
The Open|SpeedShop preference configuration file which is 
accessed through the Open|SpeedShop GUI Preferences menu item.
This file contains several options which allow the user to 
configure Open|SpeedShop to better fit their needs.

See the Open|SpeedShop Users Guide for full details on the
preferences available.
.RE

.IP ~/.openspeedshop
.RS
The online mode of Open|SpeedShop will create MRNet topology files
in the ~/.openspeedshop directory.  The MRNet topology files allow
the MRNet component to know the host names for all the nodes that will
be a part of the Open|SpeedShop performance experiment and uses this
information to communicate with Open|SpeedShop.  Commands and 
performance data are passed between Open|SpeedShop and the nodes 
where the user application is being run.

See the Open|SpeedShop Users Guide for full details on the
preferences available.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP OPENSS_RAWDATA_DIR (offline mode of operation only)
On a cluster where /tmp is not shared across nodes, this
environment variable needs to be set to a path to a shared
file system that is accessible from all the nodes of the
cluster.  The offline mode of operation for Open|SpeedShop
needs a shared file system location to write the files containing
the performance information from each process on all the
nodes of the cluster involved in the experiment.  The online 
version of Open|SpeedShop can also use this variable to take 
advantage of faster file systems, but it is not required in the
same sense as it is when running in offline mode.  If /tmp is not
a shared file system and OPENSS_RAWDATA_DIR is not set, then the
performance data from the nodes where /tmp is not shared will not
be available in the Open|SpeedShop view of the experiment data.
.IP OPENSS_MPI_IMPLEMENTATION
If the module, dotkit, or set-up script that is used to load the
runtime environment of Open|SpeedShop doesn't distinguish or specify
the MPI implementation inside the module, dotkit, or script, then
this variable may be needed.  This environment variable is only
needed if the user is running one of the MPI experiments (mpi,
mpit, or mpiotf).  Otherwise, this environment variable does 
not need to be set.  Also, if Open|SpeedShop was only configured
for one MPI implementation, then this environment variable does
not need to be set.  It is used to inform Open|SpeedShop what
MPI implementation the application is built with. 

.SH QUICK START EXAMPLE
The following command runs the MPI executable "mpi_prog" and gathers 
program counter sampling information on the 64 ranked processes.  
When completed, a view of the aggregated information is displayed 
to the screen.  An Open|SpeedShop database file, named 
"mpi_prog-openmpi-pcsamp.openss" will be created.  This database 
contains all the information to view the experiment performance data
postmortem.  The database file may be used to view the performance 
data for this experiment with the default view or using the several 
different viewing options which allow rank to rank comparisons or 
the ability to view performance information for individual ranks 
or groups of ranks.

The "pcsamp" experiment type gives a good, low overhead, overview 
of where application bottlenecks are.  The output from this experiment 
can then be used to choose another of the Open|SpeedShop experiments 
to further focus in on the application bottleneck(s).
.nf

Please use one of the OpenSpeedShop convenience scripts:
osspcsamp "/opt/openmpi/bin/mpiexec -np 64 /home/user/mpi_prog"

.fi

.SH BUGS
TBD

.SH AUTHOR
Open|SpeedShop Team <oss-questions@openspeedshop.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR osspcsamp (1),
.BR ossusertime (1),
.BR osshwc (1),
.BR osshwcsamp (1),
.BR osshwctime (1),
.BR ossio (1),
.BR ossiop (1),
.BR ossiot (1),
.BR ossmem (1),
.BR ossmpi (1),
.BR ossmpip (1),
.BR ossmpit (1),
.BR ossomptp (1)
.BR osspthreads (1)
.BR osscuda (1)
.BR osscompare (1)
.BR OpenSpeedShop (3)
.BR OpenSpeedShop_offline (3)
.BR OpenSpeedShop_cbtf (3)
