.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii ossfpe.1
.\"
.TH OSSFPE 1 "SEPTEMBER 2010" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
ossfpe \- DEPRECATED IN CBTF VERSION Open|SpeedShop Floating Point Exception Tracing experiment script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.IP "ossfpe simple_executable [ FPE_EXCEPTION_LIST ]"
.IP "ossfpe ""executable args"" [ FPE_EXCEPTION_LIST ] "
.IP "ossfpe ""multi_executable"" [ FPE_EXCEPTION_LIST ] "
.fi

.SH TYPICAL USAGE FORM
.nf

ossfpe "multi_executable"

For example:

ossfpe "/opt/openmpi/bin/mpirun -np 4 /u/user/mpi_prog" 

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ossfpe

ossfpe is a convenience command script that invokes the 
Open|SpeedShop application level performance tool to gather 
floating point exception (FPE) trace performance information about
the application being monitored and reports that information 
back to the user in order to locate FPE performance 
bottlenecks in user applications.

ossfpe intercepts the floating point exceptions that occur in the application
and records the location of the floating point exception and the call path
to the exception.
  
This allows the user to interrogate the call paths/stacks to find 
out where each call has been made in the application program

Information that is presented after the execution of the "fpe"
experiment is the list of exceptions with counts and the location 
in the users application program where the exception occurred.
In addition, the call paths to where the exception occurred in the 
user application is also presented to the user.  

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "simple_executable"
This option specifies the simple executable to be run. By 
simple executable we mean a one word command with no arguments.
No quotes around the executable name are needed when the command
is a single word command with no arguments.

.IP " ""executable args"" "
This option specifies an executable with arguments to be run. In
this case the executable can be a one word command or a multiple word
(multiple tokens) command, such as a mpi command specification. 
For example:

        "simple_executable -n 40 40 40"

or

        "/opt/mpi/mpirun -np 64 ./executable_name" 

Open|SpeedShop requires quotes around the executable and arguments when 
the executable command is not simple.

.IP " ""multi_executable [args]"" "
This option specifies a multiple word executable with or without
arguments to be run. In this case the executable is multiple word 
command or a multiple word command, such as a mpi command 
specification. For example: 

        "/opt/mpi/mpirun -np 64 ./executable_name" 

Open|SpeedShop requires quotes around the executable and arguments when 
the executable command is not simple.

.IP "FPE_EXCEPTION_LIST"
Specify one or more of the exceptions below in a list to be traced.  
If the OPENSS_FPE_EVENT is set, this value will override the list 
defined by OPENSS_FPE_EVENT.  The current list of floating point
exceptions supported is:
    * inexact_result
    * division_by_zero
    * underflow
    * overflow
    * invalid_operation

.IP "default"
Force the experiment to use the default list of system floating point 
exceptions to be traced when running the experiment. This overrides the 
OPENSS_FPE_EVENT environment variable if it was set.

.IP "<no arguments>"
If no optional arguments are specified then the default list of system 
floating point exceptions to be traced is used in the experiment run.  
However, if the OPENSS_FPE_EVENT environment variable is set then 
that FPE list will be used in the experiment run.


.SH FILES
.IP ~/.qt/openspeedshoprc
.RS
The Open|SpeedShop preference configuration file which is 
accessed through the Open|SpeedShop GUI Preferences menu item.
This file contains several options which allow the user to 
configure Open|SpeedShop to better fit their needs.

See the Open|SpeedShop Users Guide for full details on the
preferences available.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP OPENSS_RAWDATA_DIR (offline mode of operation only)
On a cluster where /tmp is not shared across nodes, this
environment variable needs to be set to a path to a shared
file system that is accessible from all the nodes of the
cluster.  The offline mode of operation for Open|SpeedShop
needs a shared file system location to write the files containing
the performance information from each process on all the
nodes of the cluster involved in the experiment.  The online
version of Open|SpeedShop can also use this variable to take
advantage of faster file systems, but it is not required in the
same sense as it is when running in offline mode.  If /tmp is not
a shared file system and OPENSS_RAWDATA_DIR is not set, then the
performance data from the nodes where /tmp is not shared will not
be available in the Open|SpeedShop view of the experiment data.

.IP OPENSS_FPE_EVENT
This environment variable specifies the floating point exception
list that the ossfpe will trace during the experiment run.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following diagnostics may be TBD:

.SH QUICK START EXAMPLE
The following command runs the MPI executable "mpi_prog" and gathers 
Input/Output function trace information on the 64 ranked processes.  
When completed, a view of the aggregated information is displayed 
to the screen.  An Open|SpeedShop database file, named 
"mpi_prog-fpe.openss" will be created.  This database 
contains all the information to view the experiment performance data
postmortem.  The database file may be used to view the performance 
data for this experiment with the default view or using the several 
different viewing options which allow rank to rank comparisons or 
the ability to view performance information for individual ranks 
or groups of ranks.

The "fpe" experiment presents an overview of where floating
point exceptions occurred in the user application. Call paths to where
the exception occurred and number of times the exception occurred are 
also available.
.nf

ossfpe "/opt/openmpi/bin/mpiexec -np 64 /home/user/mpi_prog"
.fi

.SH BUGS
TBD

.SH AUTHOR
Open|SpeedShop Team <oss-questions@openspeedshop.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR openss (1),
.BR osspcsamp (1)
.BR ossusertime (1),
.BR osshwc (1)
.BR osshwctime (1)
.BR ossiot (1)
.BR ossmpi (1)
.BR ossmpip (1)
.BR ossmpit (1)
.BR ossmpiotf (1)
.BR ossio (1)


