.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii osshwctime.1
.\"
.TH OSSHWCTIME 1 "JUNE 2009" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
osshwctime \- Open|SpeedShop Hardware Counter and Call Path Sampling experiment script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.IP "osshwctime simple_executable [ high || low || default || PAPI_EVENT || PAPI_THRESHOLD ] "
.IP "osshwctime ""executable args""   [ high || low || default || PAPI_EVENT || PAPI_THRESHOLD  ] "
.IP "osshwctime ""multi_executable""  [ high || low || default || PAPI_EVENT || PAPI_THRESHOLD ] "
.fi

.SH TYPICAL USAGE FORMS
.nf

osshwctime "multi_executable"

For example, run with default papi event and threshold:

osshwctime "/opt/openmpi/bin/mpirun -np 4 /u/user/mpi_prog"

osshwctime "multi_executable" PAPI_EVENT PAPI_THRESHOLD

For example, run with alternative papi event and threshold:

osshwctime "/opt/openmpi/bin/mpirun -np 4 /u/user/mpi_prog" PAPI_FP_OPS 12000

.fi



.SH DESCRIPTION
.B osshwctime

osshwctime is a convenience command script that invokes the 
Open|SpeedShop application level performance tool to gather 
hardware counter event and call path sampling performance information 
about the application being monitored and reports that 
information back to the user in order to locate performance 
bottlenecks in user applications that may be hardware resource
related.  For example, relating cycles to memory references or 
flops to level 1 cache misses can indicate poor locality and 
memory management.

osshwctime does sampling based on a hardware counter event threshold
and the type of event selected.  These are changeable by using
the OPENSS_HWCTIME_EVENT and OPENSS_HWCTIME_THRESHOLD environment variables.

Information that is presented after the execution of the hwctime
experiment is a mapping back to the source of the application of the
statistical representation of where the hardware counter events occurred and
the inclusive and exclusive CPU time for all the functions
in the program, which statement took the most time in the application,
the call path information (what the function call chain is: foo called
bar, bar called x and y, etc.), performance data information presented 
sorted by linked object, functions, or statement.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "simple_executable"
This option specifies the simple executable to be run. By 
simple executable we mean a one word command with no arguments.
No quotes around the executable name are needed when the command
is a single word command with no arguments.

.IP " ""executable args"" "
This option specifies an executable with arguments to be run. In
this case the executable can be a one word command or a multiple word
command, such as a mpi command specification. For example:

        "simple_executable -n 40 40 40"

or

        "/opt/mpi/mpirun -np 64 ./executable_name" 

Open|SpeedShop requires quotes around the executable and arguments when 
the executable command is not simple.

.IP " ""multi_executable [args]"" "
This option specifies a multiple word executable with or without
arguments to be run. In this case the executable is multiple word 
command or a multiple word command, such as a mpi command 
specification. For example: 

        "/opt/mpi/mpirun -np 64 ./executable_name" 

Open|SpeedShop requires quotes around the executable and arguments when 
the executable command is not simple.

.IP "high"
Raise the default threshold value to increase the number of samples taken.
If the OPENSS_HWCTIME_THRESHOLD is set, then that value is multiplied by four and
the resulting value is used as the threshold for the experiment being run.
It the OPENSS_HWCTIME_THRESHOLD environment variable is not set then the default
threshold value (10000) is multiplied by four and used as the threshold for 
the experiment being run.

.IP "low"
Lower the default threshold value to reduce the number of samples taken.
If the OPENSS_HWCTIME_THRESHOLD is set, then that value is divided by two and
the resulting value is used as the threshold for the experiment being run.
It the OPENSS_HWCTIME_THRESHOLD environment variable is not set then the default
threshold value (10000) is divided by two and used as the threshold for 
the experiment being run.

.IP "default"
Force the experiment to use the default hardware counter event and the 
default threshold value when running the experiment. This overrides any
environment variables that might be set.

.IP "PAPI_EVENT"
Force the experiment to use the PAPI hardware counter event specified
by this input PAPI event name when running the experiment. This overrides 
the OPENSS_HWCTIME_EVENT environment variable if it was set.

.IP "PAPI_THRESHOLD"
Force the experiment to use the PAPI hardware counter event threshold 
specified by this input PAPI event threshold value  when running the 
experiment. This overrides the OPENSS_HWCTIME_THRESHOLD environment variable 
if it was set.

.IP "<no arguments>"
If no optional arguments are specified then the default PAPI hardware
counter event and the default PAPI hardware counter threshold are used in
the experiment run.  However, if the OPENSS_HWCTIME_EVENT environment variable
and/or the OPENSS_HWCTIME_THRESHOLD are set then their values will be used in
the experiment run.

.SH FILES
.IP ~/.qt/openspeedshoprc
.RS
The Open|SpeedShop preference configuration file which is 
accessed through the Open|SpeedShop GUI Preferences menu item.
This file contains several options which allow the user to 
configure Open|SpeedShop to better fit their needs.

See the Open|SpeedShop Users Guide for full details on the
preferences available.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP OPENSS_RAWDATA_DIR (offline mode of operation only)
On a cluster where /tmp is not shared across nodes, this
environment variable needs to be set to a path to a shared
file system that is accessible from all the nodes of the
cluster.  The offline mode of operation for Open|SpeedShop
needs a shared file system location to write the files containing
the performance information from each process on all the
nodes of the cluster involved in the experiment.  The online
version of Open|SpeedShop can also use this variable to take
advantage of faster file systems, but it is not required in the
same sense as it is when running in offline mode.  If /tmp is not
a shared file system and OPENSS_RAWDATA_DIR is not set, then the
performance data from the nodes where /tmp is not shared will not
be available in the Open|SpeedShop view of the experiment data.

.IP OPENSS_HWCTIME_EVENT
This environment variable specifies the PAPI hardware counter event
name.  Open|SpeedShop will support whatever PAPI hardware counter 
non-derived events are available on the machine the experiment is
being run on.  The default event is PAPI_TOT_CYC.

.IP OPENSS_HWCTIME_THRESHOLD
This environment variable specifies the PAPI hardware counter event
threshold count.  Open|SpeedShop will record the PAPI hardware counter
event information when the number of events reaches this threshold value.
The default threshold value is 10000.  This corresponds to the default
PAPI hardware counter event, which is PAPI_TOT_CYC.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following diagnostics may be TBD:

.SH QUICK START EXAMPLE
The following command runs the MPI executable "mpi_prog" and gathers 
call path sampling information on the 64 ranked processes.  
When completed, a view of the aggregated information is displayed 
to the screen.  An Open|SpeedShop database file, named 
"mpi_prog-hwctime.openss" will be created.  This database 
contains all the information to view the experiment performance data
postmortem.  The database file may be used to view the performance 
data for this experiment with the default view or using the several 
different viewing options which allow rank to rank comparisons or 
the ability to view performance information for individual ranks 
or groups of ranks.

The hwctime experiment is used to find performance bottlenecks related to
hardware resource constraints.  This experiment allows the user to view
hardware counter event counts at the source line, machine instruction, 
and function levels of various hardware events, including: clock cycles, 
graduated instructions, primary instruction cache misses,
secondary instruction cache misses, primary data cache misses, 
secondary data cache misses, translation lookaside buffer (TLB) misses, 
and graduated floating-point instructions, amongst others.

The hwctime experiment also presents information to find call path 
performance bottlenecks using periodic sampling of the call path at 
the time of the hardware counter event threshold trigger.  This experiment 
allows the user to view inclusive and exclusive time spent in application
routines. It also allows the user to see which routines called which routines.  
Several call path views are available to view the call paths that were found
in the application and the time spent on that particular call path.

.nf

osshwctime "/opt/openmpi/bin/mpiexec -np 64 /home/user/mpi_prog"
.fi

.SH BUGS
TBD

.SH AUTHOR
Open|SpeedShop Team <oss-questions@openspeedshop.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR openss (1),
.BR osspcsamp (1),
.BR ossusertime (1)
.BR osshwc (1)
.BR ossio (1)
.BR ossiot (1)
.BR ossmpi (1)
.BR ossmpip (1)
.BR ossmpit (1)
.BR ossmpiotf (1)
.BR ossfpe (1)


