.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii osshwcsamp.1
.\"
.TH OSSHWCSAMP 1 "September 2014" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
osshwcsamp \- Open|SpeedShop Hardware Counter Sampling experiment script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.IP "osshwcsamp simple_executable [ high || low || default || PAPI_EVENT_LIST || SAMPLING_RATE ] "
.IP "osshwcsamp ""executable args""   [ high || low || default || PAPI_EVENT_LIST || SAMPLING_RATE  ] "
.IP "osshwcsamp ""multi_executable""  [ high || low || default || PAPI_EVENT_LIST || SAMPLING_RATE ] "
.fi

.SH TYPICAL USAGE FORMS
.nf

osshwcsamp "multi_executable"

For example, run with default papi event and threshold:

osshwcsamp "/opt/openmpi/bin/mpirun -np 4 /u/user/mpi_prog"

osshwcsamp "multi_executable" PAPI_EVENT_LIST SAMPLING_RATE

For example, run with alternative papi event and threshold:

osshwcsamp "/opt/openmpi/bin/mpirun -np 4 /u/user/mpi_prog" PAPI_FP_OPS,PAPI_LD_INS 120

.fi



.SH DESCRIPTION
.B osshwcsamp

osshwcsamp is a convenience command script that invokes the 
Open|SpeedShop application level performance tool to gather 
hardware counter event sampling performance information 
about the application being monitored and reports that 
information back to the user in order to locate performance 
bottlenecks in user applications that may be hardware resource
related.  For example, relating cycles to memory references or 
flops to level 1 cache misses can indicate poor locality and 
memory management.

osshwcsamp does sampling based on a periodic sampling rate
and the type of event selected.  These are changeable by using
the OPENSS_HWCSAMP_EVENTS and OPENSS_HWCSAMP_RATE environment variables.

Information that is presented after the execution of the hwcsamp
experiment is a mapping back to the source of the application of the
statistical representation of where the hardware counter events occurred.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "simple_executable"
This option specifies the simple executable to be run. By 
simple executable we mean a one word command with no arguments.
No quotes around the executable name are needed when the command
is a single word command with no arguments.

.IP " ""executable args"" "
This option specifies an executable with arguments to be run. In
this case the executable can be a one word command or a multiple word
command, such as a mpi command specification. For example:

        "simple_executable -n 40 40 40"

or

        "/opt/mpi/mpirun -np 64 ./executable_name" 

Open|SpeedShop requires quotes around the executable and arguments when 
the executable command is not simple.

.IP " ""multi_executable [args]"" "
This option specifies a multiple word executable with or without
arguments to be run. In this case the executable is multiple word 
command or a multiple word command, such as a mpi command 
specification. For example: 

        "/opt/mpi/mpirun -np 64 ./executable_name" 

Open|SpeedShop requires quotes around the executable and arguments when 
the executable command is not simple.

.IP "high"
Raise the default sampling rate value to increase the number of samples taken.
If the OPENSS_HWCSAMP_RATE is set, then that value is multiplied by four and
the resulting value is used as the threshold for the experiment being run.
It the OPENSS_HWCSAMP_RATE environment variable is not set then the default
sampling rate value (100) is multiplied by four and used as the threshold for 
the experiment being run.

.IP "low"
Lower the default sampling rate value to reduce the number of samples taken.
If the OPENSS_HWCSAMP_RATE is set, then that value is divided by two and
the resulting value is used as the threshold for the experiment being run.
It the OPENSS_HWCSAMP_RATE environment variable is not set then the default
sampling rate value (100) is divided by two and used as the threshold for 
the experiment being run.

.IP "default"
Force the experiment to use the default hardware counter event and the 
default sampling rate value when running the experiment. This overrides any
environment variables that might be set.

.IP "PAPI_EVENT_LIST"
Force the experiment to use the PAPI hardware counter event(s) specified
by this input PAPI event name(s) when running the experiment. This overrides 
the OPENSS_HWCSAMP_EVENTS environment variable if it was set.

.IP "SAMPLING_RATE"
Force the experiment to use the sampling rate value specified by this 
input PAPI event sampling rate value  when running the experiment. This 
overrides the OPENSS_HWCSAMP_RATE environment variable if it was set.

.IP "<no arguments>"
If no optional arguments are specified then the default PAPI hardware
counter event and the default PAPI hardware counter sampling rate value are used in
the experiment run.  However, if the OPENSS_HWCSAMP_EVENTS environment variable
and/or the OPENSS_HWCSAMP_RATE are set then their values will be used in
the experiment run.

.SH FILES
.IP ~/.qt/openspeedshoprc
.RS
The Open|SpeedShop preference configuration file which is 
accessed through the Open|SpeedShop GUI Preferences menu item.
This file contains several options which allow the user to 
configure Open|SpeedShop to better fit their needs.

See the Open|SpeedShop Users Guide for full details on the
preferences available.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP OPENSS_RAWDATA_DIR (offline mode of operation only)
On a cluster where /tmp is not shared across nodes, this
environment variable needs to be set to a path to a shared
file system that is accessible from all the nodes of the
cluster.  The offline mode of operation for Open|SpeedShop
needs a shared file system location to write the files containing
the performance information from each process on all the
nodes of the cluster involved in the experiment.  The online
version of Open|SpeedShop can also use this variable to take
advantage of faster file systems, but it is not required in the
same sense as it is when running in offline mode.  If /tmp is not
a shared file system and OPENSS_RAWDATA_DIR is not set, then the
performance data from the nodes where /tmp is not shared will not
be available in the Open|SpeedShop view of the experiment data.

.IP OPENSS_HWCSAMP_EVENTS
This environment variable specifies the PAPI hardware counter event
names.  Open|SpeedShop will support whatever PAPI hardware counter 
events are available on the machine the experiment is being run on.  
The default event list is PAPI_TOT_CYC and PAPI_TOT_INS.

.IP OPENSS_HWCSAMP_RATE
This environment variable specifies the PAPI hardware counter event
sampling rate value.  Open|SpeedShop will record the PAPI hardware counter
event information when the periodic sampling rate is reached.
The default sampling rate value is 100 samples per second.  

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following diagnostics may be TBD:

.SH QUICK START EXAMPLE
The following command runs the MPI executable "mpi_prog" and gathers 
call path sampling information on the 64 ranked processes.  
When completed, a view of the aggregated information is displayed 
to the screen.  An Open|SpeedShop database file, named 
"mpi_prog-hwcsamp.openss" will be created.  This database 
contains all the information to view the experiment performance data
postmortem.  The database file may be used to view the performance 
data for this experiment with the default view or using the several 
different viewing options which allow rank to rank comparisons or 
the ability to view performance information for individual ranks 
or groups of ranks.

The hwcsamp experiment is used to find performance bottlenecks related to
hardware resource constraints.  This experiment allows the user to view
hardware counter event counts at the source line, machine instruction, 
and function levels of various hardware events, including: clock cycles, 
graduated instructions, primary instruction cache misses,
secondary instruction cache misses, primary data cache misses, 
secondary data cache misses, translation lookaside buffer (TLB) misses, 
and graduated floating-point instructions, amongst others.

.nf

osshwcsamp "/opt/openmpi/bin/mpiexec -np 64 /home/user/mpi_prog"
.fi

.SH BUGS
TBD

.SH AUTHOR
Open|SpeedShop Team <oss-questions@openspeedshop.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR openss (1),
.BR osspcsamp (1),
.BR ossusertime (1)
.BR osshwc (1)
.BR osshwctime (1)
.BR ossio (1)
.BR ossiot (1)
.BR ossmpi (1)
.BR ossmpip (1)
.BR ossmpit (1)
.BR ossmpiotf (1)
.BR ossfpe (1)


