.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii osspcsamp.1
.\"
.TH OSSPCSAMP 1 "JUNE 2009" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
osspcsamp \- Open|SpeedShop Program counter experiment script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.IP "osspcsamp simple_executable [ high || low || default ]"
.IP "osspcsamp ""executable args"" [ high || low || default ] "
.IP "osspcsamp ""multi_executable"" [ high || low || default ] "
.fi

.SH TYPICAL USAGE FORM
.nf

osspcsamp "multi_executable"

For example:

osspcsamp "/opt/openmpi/bin/mpirun -np 4 /u/user/mpi_prog" 

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B osspcsamp

osspcsamp is a convenience command script that invokes the 
Open|SpeedShop application level performance tool to gather 
program counter sampling performance information about
the application being monitored and reports that information back to the
user in order to locate performance bottlenecks in user applications.

osspcsamp does periodic sampling of the program counter giving 
a low overhead overview of where the time is being spent in 
the user application.

Information that is presented after the execution of the pcsamp
experiment is exclusive CPU time for all the functions in the program, 
which statement took the most time in the application, performance data 
information presented sorted by linked object, functions, or statement.


.SH OPTIONS

.IP "simple_executable"
This option specifies the simple executable to be run. By 
simple executable we mean a one word command with no arguments.
No quotes around the executable name are needed when the command
is a single word command with no arguments.

.IP " ""executable args"" "
This option specifies an executable with arguments to be run. In
this case the executable can be a one word command or a multiple word
(multiple tokens) command, such as a mpi command specification. 
For example:

        "simple_executable -n 40 40 40"

or

        "/opt/mpi/mpirun -np 64 ./executable_name" 

Open|SpeedShop requires quotes around the executable and arguments when 
the executable command is not simple.

.IP " ""multi_executable [args]"" "
This option specifies a multiple word executable with or without
arguments to be run. In this case the executable is multiple word 
command or a multiple word command, such as a mpi command 
specification. For example: 

        "/opt/mpi/mpirun -np 64 ./executable_name" 

Open|SpeedShop requires quotes around the executable and arguments when 
the executable command is not simple.

.IP "high"
Raise the default sampling rate value to increase the number of samples taken.
If the OPENSS_PCSAMP_RATE is set, then that value is multiplied by four and
the resulting value is used as the sampling rate for the experiment being run.
It the OPENSS_PCSAMP_RATE environment variable is not set then the default
sampling rate value (100) is multiplied by four and used as the sampling rate for
the experiment being run.

.IP "low"
Lower the default sampling rate value to reduce the number of samples taken.
If the OPENSS_PCSAMP_RATE is set, then that value is divided by two and
the resulting value is used as the sampling rate for the experiment being run.
It the OPENSS_PCSAMP_RATE environment variable is not set then the default
sampling rate value (100) is divided by two and used as the sampling rate for
the experiment being run.

.IP "default"
Force the experiment to use the default sampling rate value when running
the experiment. This overrides the OPENSS_PCSAMP_RATE environment variable
if it was set.

.IP "<no arguments>"
If no optional arguments are specified then the default sampling rate
is used in the experiment run.  However, if the OPENSS_PCSAMP_RATE
environment variable is set then its value will be used in the experiment run.


.SH FILES
.IP ~/.qt/openspeedshoprc
.RS
The Open|SpeedShop preference configuration file which is 
accessed through the Open|SpeedShop GUI Preferences menu item.
This file contains several options which allow the user to 
configure Open|SpeedShop to better fit their needs.

See the Open|SpeedShop Users Guide for full details on the
preferences available.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP OPENSS_RAWDATA_DIR (offline mode of operation only)
On a cluster where /tmp is not shared across nodes, this
environment variable needs to be set to a path to a shared
file system that is accessible from all the nodes of the
cluster.  The offline mode of operation for Open|SpeedShop
needs a shared file system location to write the files containing
the performance information from each process on all the
nodes of the cluster involved in the experiment.  The online
version of Open|SpeedShop can also use this variable to take
advantage of faster file systems, but it is not required in the
same sense as it is when running in offline mode.  If /tmp is not
a shared file system and OPENSS_RAWDATA_DIR is not set, then the
performance data from the nodes where /tmp is not shared will not
be available in the Open|SpeedShop view of the experiment data.

.IP OPENSS_PCSAMP_RATE
This environment variable allows control over how often the
application is interrupted to take a sample of the program
counter.  When interrupted the program counter address is recorded
and saved.  This information is used to form a report indicating where
the program is spending most of its time.  The default sampling rate
is 100 times per second.  If this number is changed to be higher, more
samples will be taken and, of course, lower the sampling rate reduces
the number of samples taken.  The effect of raising the sampling rate
is more perturbation of the application, but also, perhaps, a more 
accurate statistical sample of where the program is spending its time.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following diagnostics may be TBD:

.SH QUICK START EXAMPLE
The following command runs the MPI executable "mpi_prog" and gathers 
program counter sampling information on the 64 ranked processes.  
When completed, a view of the aggregated information is displayed 
to the screen.  An Open|SpeedShop database file, named 
"mpi_prog-pcsamp.openss" will be created.  This database 
contains all the information to view the experiment performance data
postmortem.  The database file may be used to view the performance 
data for this experiment with the default view or using the several 
different viewing options which allow rank to rank comparisons or 
the ability to view performance information for individual ranks 
or groups of ranks.

The "pcsamp" experiment gives a good, low overhead, overview 
of where application bottlenecks are.  Analyzing the output from 
this experiment can be used to choose another of the Open|SpeedShop 
experiments to further focus in on the application bottleneck(s).
.nf

osspcsamp "/opt/openmpi/bin/mpiexec -np 64 /home/user/mpi_prog"
.fi

.SH BUGS
TBD

.SH AUTHOR
Open|SpeedShop Team <oss-questions@openspeedshop.org>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR openss (1),
.BR ossusertime (1),
.BR osshwc (1),
.BR osshwcsamp (1),
.BR osshwctime (1),
.BR ossio (1),
.BR ossiop (1),
.BR ossiot (1),
.BR ossmem (1),
.BR ossmpi (1),
.BR ossmpip (1),
.BR ossmpit (1),
.BR ossmpiotf (1),
.BR ossomptp (1)
.BR osspthreads (1)
.BR osscuda (1)
.BR osscompare (1)
.BR OpenSpeedShop (3)
.BR OpenSpeedShop_offline (3)
.BR OpenSpeedShop_cbtf (3)
