.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii ossusertime.1
.\"
.TH OSSUSERTIME 1 "JANUARY 2017" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
ossusertime \- Open|SpeedShop Call Path Analysis experiment script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.IP "ossusertime simple_executable [ high || low || default ]" 
.IP "ossusertime ""executable args"" [ high || low || default ] "
.IP "ossusertime ""multi_executable"" [ high || low || default ] "
.fi

.SH TYPICAL USAGE FORM
.nf

ossusertime "multi_executable"

For example:

ossusertime "/opt/openmpi/bin/mpirun -np 4 /u/user/mpi_prog"

.fi



.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ossusertime

ossusertime is a convenience command script that invokes the 
Open|SpeedShop application level performance tool to gather 
call path sampling performance information about the application 
being monitored and reports that information back to the
user in order to locate call path related performance bottlenecks 
in user applications.

ossusertime does periodic sampling of the application's call 
paths giving a fairly low overhead overview of where the time 
is being spent in the user application. 

Information that is presented after the execution of the usertime
experiment is inclusive and exclusive CPU time for all the functions
in the program, which statement took the most time in the application,
the call path information (what the function call chain is: foo called
bar, bar called x and y, etc.), performance data information presented 
sorted by linked object, functions, or statement.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "simple_executable"
This option specifies the simple executable to be run. By 
simple executable we mean a one word command with no arguments.
No quotes around the executable name are needed when the command
is a single word command with no arguments.

.IP " ""executable args"" "
This option specifies an executable with arguments to be run. In
this case the executable can be a one word command or a multiple word
command, such as a mpi command specification. For example:

        "simple_executable -n 40 40 40"

or

        "/opt/mpi/mpirun -np 64 ./executable_name" 

Open|SpeedShop requires quotes around the executable and arguments when 
the executable command is not simple.

.IP " ""multi_executable [args]"" "
This option specifies a multiple word executable with or without
arguments to be run. In this case the executable is multiple word 
command or a multiple word command, such as a mpi command 
specification. For example: 

        "/opt/mpi/mpirun -np 64 ./executable_name" 

Open|SpeedShop requires quotes around the executable and arguments when 
the executable command is not simple.

.IP "high"
Raise the default sampling rate value to increase the number of samples taken.
If the OPENSS_USERTIME_RATE is set, then that value is multiplied by four and
the resulting value is used as the sampling rate for the experiment being run.
It the OPENSS_USERTIME_RATE environment variable is not set then the default
sampling rate value (35) is multiplied by four and used as the sampling rate for
the experiment being run.

.IP "low"
Lower the default sampling rate value to reduce the number of samples taken.
If the OPENSS_USERTIME_RATE is set, then that value is divided by two and
the resulting value is used as the sampling rate for the experiment being run.
It the OPENSS_USERTIME_RATE environment variable is not set then the default
sampling rate value (35) is divided by two and used as the sampling rate for
the experiment being run.

.IP "default"
Force the experiment to use the default sampling rate value when running 
the experiment. This overrides the OPENSS_USERTIME_RATE environment variable
if it was set.

.IP "<no arguments>"
If no optional arguments are specified then the default sampling rate
is used in the experiment run.  However, if the OPENSS_USERTIME_RATE
environment variable is set then its value will be used in the experiment run.

.SH FILES
.IP ~/.qt/openspeedshoprc
.RS
The Open|SpeedShop preference configuration file which is 
accessed through the Open|SpeedShop GUI Preferences menu item.
This file contains several options which allow the user to 
configure Open|SpeedShop to better fit their needs.

See the Open|SpeedShop Users Guide for full details on the
preferences available.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP OPENSS_RAWDATA_DIR (offline mode of operation only)
On a cluster where /tmp is not shared across nodes, this
environment variable needs to be set to a path to a shared
file system that is accessible from all the nodes of the
cluster.  The offline mode of operation for Open|SpeedShop
needs a shared file system location to write the files containing
the performance information from each process on all the
nodes of the cluster involved in the experiment.  The online
version of Open|SpeedShop can also use this variable to take
advantage of faster file systems, but it is not required in the
same sense as it is when running in offline mode.  If /tmp is not
a shared file system and OPENSS_RAWDATA_DIR is not set, then the
performance data from the nodes where /tmp is not shared will not
be available in the Open|SpeedShop view of the experiment data.

.IP OPENSS_USERTIME_RATE
This environment variable allows control over how often the
application is interrupted to take a sample of the current call path.  
When interrupted the current call path is recorded and saved.  
This information is used to form a report indicating where
the program is spending most of its time and what routines called other
routines.  The default sampling rate is 35 times per second.  If 
this rate is changed to be higher, more samples will be taken and, 
of course, lower the sampling rate reduces the number of samples taken.  
The effect of raising the sampling rate is more perturbation of the application
and a larger Open|SpeedShop performance experiment database file, but also, 
perhaps, a more accurate statistical sampling of where the program is 
spending its time.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following diagnostics may be TBD:

.SH QUICK START EXAMPLE
The following command runs the MPI executable "mpi_prog" and gathers 
call path sampling information on the 64 ranked processes.  
When completed, a view of the aggregated information is displayed 
to the screen.  An Open|SpeedShop database file, named 
"mpi_prog-usertime.openss" will be created.  This database 
contains all the information to view the experiment performance data
postmortem.  The database file may be used to view the performance 
data for this experiment with the default view or using the several 
different viewing options which allow rank to rank comparisons or 
the ability to view performance information for individual ranks 
or groups of ranks.

The usertime experiment is used to find call path performance bottlenecks
using periodic sampling of the call path at the time of the sampling rate
trigger/interrupt.  This experiment allows the user to view inclusive 
and exclusive time spent in application routines. It also allows the 
user to see which routines called which routines.  Several call path views 
are available to view the call paths that were found in the application 
and the time spent on that particular call path.

.nf

ossusertime "/opt/openmpi/bin/mpiexec -np 64 /home/user/mpi_prog"
.fi

.SH BUGS
TBD

.SH AUTHOR
Open|SpeedShop Team <oss-questions@openspeedshop.org>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR openss (1),
.BR osspcsamp (1),
.BR osshwc (1),
.BR osshwcsamp (1),
.BR osshwctime (1),
.BR ossio (1),
.BR ossiop (1),
.BR ossiot (1),
.BR ossmem (1),
.BR ossmpi (1),
.BR ossmpip (1),
.BR ossmpit (1),
.BR ossmpiotf (1),
.BR ossomptp (1)
.BR osspthreads (1)
.BR osscuda (1)
.BR osscompare (1)
.BR OpenSpeedShop (3)
.BR OpenSpeedShop_offline (3)
.BR OpenSpeedShop_cbtf (3)

